Hi, my name
is Lori and I'm a teacher at River Valley
Middle School.
I'm going to talk to you today
about an initiative that this school took
on the entire school.
Does this three days a week.
And it's just a two paragraph
fluency passage
where kids are focusing on their rhythm
and phrasing.
And punctuation.
So what happens in our mornings
on Monday, Wednesday, Friday
after announcements are made?
Someone down in the office
will announce for kids to,
get their sheet of paper,
and do their fluency passage.
So they get the paper,
they find a partner,
they work with the same person
over the course of the week.
There's two paragraphs.
One partner reads one paragraph.
The other one reads the other paragraph.
The same one all three days.
And we're really focusing on the rhythm
and phrasing here,
which is reading punctuation
and vocabulary.
If your friend that you're reading with
is able to help you with vocabulary,
absolutely do that.
If you get stuck on one, we just ask
that you underline or highlight.
Because at the end of the week,
they get collected and then, bank of
unfamiliar words is made and then sent out
to, the subject teacher,
because a great thing with these, again,
they can be cross-curricular.
So, you could one week
have a science piece,
the next week could be a social studies.
And it's not meant to stump
kids, like, with unfamiliar words.
So that's why when I make them,
I always talk with the teacher to find out
what they've been doing
so the kids will be familiar with it.
I also will throw maybe a piece
of figurative language in there,
just to add a little bit of spice to it,
but we'll maybe she'll have Grace
and Olivia here.
And we'll show you kind of what it looks
like, on the run of the morning.
July 1st is an important day in Canada
because it is a Canada Day,
the country's national holiday.
On this day in 1867, Canada
officially became a country
through the signing
of the cannon generation,
which united the provinces of Ontario,
Quebec, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia.
The importance of July 1st goes
beyond just celebrating Canada's birthday.
It is also the day to show pride
in being Canadian
and to reflect
on what makes Canada unique.
People wear
red and white wave Canada flags
and participate in fun community events.
So you just heard Grace and Olivia
reading that passage,
which again is done in the morning,
three days a week when they're done.
It takes about 3 to 5 minutes,
but when they're finished,
the kids all put the passages
back in a basket in the classroom,
and then it sits there until the next day.
At the end of the week.
Here at the school, I collected them all
and then went through every passage
in the school.
And any words that were underlined
or highlighted.
I made a bank, and then I emailed them out
so that they could see any issues
with vocabulary or meaning, and then they
can incorporate it into their lessons.
And again, the big focus here
was the rhythm and phrasing,
and vocabulary and also providing
feedback, you know, to your partner and,
you know,
I witnessed a few times this year,
when I overheard students saying
to their classmate like, wow, you did
really good that time reading that,
which is exactly what we want to see.
Today I'm going to talk to you
about something that we call,
fluency screeners.
That is a tool that you have access
to on teams
as teachers,
that you can look at students reading.
It's very easy to create.
Just couple of steps to follow.
And it's fantastic because it allows you
to individualize the reading passages.
So if you want students
that are individualized
to have it adjusted, and even kids
that really excel at reading,
you can put them at different levels.
Also,
they can be created cross-curricular.
So you can bring in different
subject areas into it.
When creating them, you can,
either pull from a library bank on teams.
There's also an AI option, and there is
also the option to upload, on your own.
So I've got a couple students here with me
today that I'm going to get them, Grace
and Olivia to show you what it looks like
from a student's perspective.
When they log into teams
and then go into, in this case,
their language arts team,
to see what the screener looks like,
the importance of the hydrosphere.
The hydrosphere is one of the most
important systems on Earth.
It includes all water on our planet,
such as oceans,
lakes, rivers, glaciers,
and even water found underground.
Water is essential for life
without the hydrosphere.
Living things like plants, animals,
and humans would not be able to survive.
So Hydro Sphere helps to support life
by providing drinking
water, growing food,
and keeping the environment balanced.
So you just heard Olivia reading,
the fluency screener that is on teams.
So now that she's completed it, now
the data gets sent back to the teacher.
So we're just going to take a look on my
laptop,
to see how she did, on that assignment.
So you can see here
that it's that it's turned in.
Grace has looked at hers,
but is not completed yet.
So here's the data
that the teacher gets to see.
Not only can they watch and listen
to, Olivia reading.
It also gives you,
how many words per minute she read,
which is 131, which is good.
So great job, Olivia.
It also gives you some other data
accuracy rates and mispronunciations.
And you'll notice different
things are highlighted
on here
that tells you words that were left out.
If they were repeated.
You can also go into the comprehension
because she did do some comprehension
questions on it, which the student
gets instant feedback on.
But as the teacher,
if you want to see her like, awesome.
There were three questions.
And she got all of them right.
If you go into the expression.
Okay, you can go through
and it kind of color codes,
different things and you can click on it
saying what happened here?
It's saying that she, rushed her
reading,
this little different colored
that a period was skipped.
So the data that a teacher can get
from this particular, fluency screener
can help guide the teacher's instruction
in the classroom.
Whether it's something like
rhythm and phrasing, focusing on making
sure that students are reading punctuation
properly in the passage.
If kids are struggling on a
for on the same word within a passage,
and you can do some word work on that,
or it may identify
students
that need extra support in their reading.
So it is a really good tool,
and it's something that our school here
at Reveille took on this year, that
the kids completed one every two weeks
and it got uploaded, to their teachers
that they could use that
and it can be done.
His homework doesn't
have to be done at school, which is great.
But we did offer options for kids
if they didn't have access at home,
opportunities throughout the week
that they could get it done
so that it was was done
and that the teachers had the data to use.
And it shows growth over time
because it records all of the readings,
and it can show their progress
on how they're doing.